Hello everyone and welcome back to Part 3 document object model events.
Now we're going to learn how to use javascript to trigger on events.
So we don't always want to have to specify beforehand how to interact with the document object model.
It's unrealistic that we're going to be editing the console every single time or that will magically
know in the javascript what we want to actually interact with.
Many times you only want the interaction to occur on a particular event such as a click or a hover.
And that's what you've been used to when you visit real web sites.
Well we all want to do is achieve this sort of effect by adding what's known as an event listener and
the javascript will be listening for an event to occur and then execute a function when it happens.
Let me show you some example code to get a better idea of what I mean by this imagine I want to listen
for an event.
Well the basic form looks like this.
It's my variable whatever variable you happen to have grabbed from the document object model.
Then you say Dot add event listener call that method and then you pass in a particular event and a function.
So for example let's say we grab the head of the document or heading one by saying document that query
selector H-1 then off of that variable we would say add event listener as in an event name and an example
event name is such as click and then comma we would pasand some functions such as the change color function
that we've seen earlier and that's the basic form of event listeners you pass any particular event name.
And then you pass on a function that you've created or a built in function that you want to have happen
upon the event.
So there are many many possible events just a few of them are things such as clicks hovers double clicks
dragging and there's much more.
What I recommend is if you're really interested in all these events then check out this link right here.
You can just google search developer Mozilla javascript events or excuse me document object model events
and I'll probably take you to this page.
But there's the link if you want it.
We're just going to show you a few of the most useful events.
So let's explore these events and then hop over to my editor in browser and show you how you can make
the interaction functions occur upon a particular event.
OK so I have my editor open and I also have a blank HCM file called maned but each team L and then I
also have a blank javascript file called my script that checks and I am going to grab the full path.
Two main HVM L and then go to it in my browser on the right hand side and it's blank right now.
So let's put in some HDMI content.
That way we can in the future grab it using Document object model.
So right now in the body I'm going to add in three H-1 tags.
The first H-1 tag is going to say hover over me.
And we're going to give it an ID equal to 1.
Then the second H1 tag it's going to say click me and we'll give it an ID tag up to and then heading
1 it gets an ID tag you probably guessed it three and it's going to say double click me.
We're going to save that.
Let's refresh our page.
And here we see hover over me click me and double click me and let's connect it using the script tag.
So I will say script and then SIRC the source sequel to my script.
J.S. save that and I'll hop over to my script that G-S and show you how we can add an event listeners.
So the first thing you need to do is actually grab the document object model variables that we want.
So the first one we'll call ahead 1 and I want that to be document dot query selector and then I can
just and hash tag one and I'm going to copy and paste this line since the next two are going to look
really similar.
So instead of one will say the ID 2 and then that of one there will say three.
And then coming all the way over here will change this as well to head 3 and then head to.
So we have everything.
And just to make sure it's all connected.
I'm going to say cancel that log connected.
Let's save this refresh our page and here I see counsel that law connected.
So everything's working well.
I can get rid of this now and let's show you how to add a basic event listener person you need to do
after grabbing from the document object model is grabbed the variable and then you say dots and you
add in events listener and make sure your spelling and capitalization is correct here.
So at event listener and one event you may want to do is what's known as a mouse over and that's essentially
whenever your mouse is hovering over some object or some HMO attribute then the function will take place.
So the key word here is mouse over that Stephen's name.
And then we the function
curly brackets and then hit enter.
And here is where we can define the function.
What do we want to actually happen when we call mouse over.
So let's have the text change.
So I will say head 1 dot text content is equal to mouse currently over.
Let's save that will refresh our page and now you'll notice when I hover my mouse over this one time
it says mouse currently over and then it stops.
So that's the very basic of mouse over.
Let's add one more change to this will also change the color we'll say head 1 style about color and
set that equal to something really obvious like red save it refreshed the page and then I see hover
over me.
And as I come in when I hover over says mouse currently over and then I can't change it back.
So how do we actually make it so that once my mouse comes off of it it reverts back.
Well the way we can do that is with the mouse out events.
So again I grab head one I add an events listener and then I say mouse out pass any function call here.
And for this function call we will have its say head 1 and we will call the text contents of head 1
to be equal to what it originally said and what it originally said was something like over over me.
And then let's change it back to its original color.
And its original color was black OK.
So here we can save this and let's try this again.
And now we should see the change.
If I'm saying mouse currently over I pull my mouse off and it says hover over me and now I can see it
turn on and off as my mouse hovers over it.
So pretty cool.
And you can kind of play around with this a lot but that's the very basics of adding an event listener.
Again you're grabbing something for the document object model probably using a query selector in the
next section we'll learn how to do this with a query and then you say advent listener whatever event
you're looking for you can check out that link for a huge list of event names and then you pass on the
function.
And what you actually want to occur in that function when this event takes place.
All right.
So that's a very basic event listener.
Let's show you some more basic ones such as on Clix or grab head to add an event listener and for a
click.
It's just that keyword click.
Then I will call a function and the function I want here is let's change it upon click.
So I'll say head to teks contents will have its say click Bon and also change its color just so it's
really obvious.
Head to style dot color and I'm going to change that to be blue.
Let's save it refresh over here and right now as I hover over this thing it changes like click on the
click me.
I can see it says clicked on.
All right.
Pretty cool so far.
Finally how we can do a double click.
Head to an event listener.
The key word for this one is DBIL click for double click.
Again we have the function call curly brackets and then whatever you want happens to any really aged
female element on the page will do two loops.
This should actually be had three not had two.
My apologies and then let's change the text content and we'll say I was double clicked
and then will say had 3.
Let's also change the color now all set equal to read save it.
Refresh our page and we can see here my hover is working on a click.
This got clicked on and then if I double click once you can't really see it or hear it.
But I'm only clicking once here it's only until I double click that I see I was double clicked all right
so that's the basics of using events with javascript and the document object model.
Coming up next we're going to be doing a walk through of a very simple game project a very very simple
tic tac toe model.
It's not even going to be a full game of tic tac toe just to get an idea of what all of this would look
like in a larger front and stack project.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.